PXB-3016 Release notes for Percona XtraBackup 8.0.32-26 (#109)
percona/pxb-docs: docs/release-notes/8.0/8.0.32-26.0.md

## Release highlights

This release includes improvements and bug fixes. Percona has implemented a two-stage release process for each version. The first release primarily ensures compatibility with the latest MySQL version, to help those customers who need an updated version of Percona XtraBackup as soon as possible. The second release contains additional bug fixes and any improvements or new features. 

This release fixes the security vulnerability [CVE-2022-25834](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-25834) with [PXB-2977](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2977).

This version adds the `--estimate-memory` parameter to enable/disable the [Smart memory estimation](..//..//advanced/smart_memory_estimation.md) feature during the backup phase.

## Improvements

[PXB-2882](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2882): Removes bitmap code and variables.

> [PXB-2979](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2979): The Smart memory estimation feature parses metadata from the redo log to estimate the required memory to prepare a backup. On intensive write workloads, this behavior caused the delay of the redo follow thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PXB-2979](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2979): The Smart memory estimation feature parses metadata from the redo log to estimate the required memory to prepare a backup. On write-intensive workloads, this behavior caused the delay of the redo follow thread.
```

Author: updated

> [PXB-2979](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2979): The Smart memory estimation feature parses metadata from the redo log to estimate the required memory to prepare a backup. On intensive write workloads, this behavior caused the delay of the following thread in the redo log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PXB-2979](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2979): The Smart memory estimation feature parses metadata from the redo log to estimate the required memory to prepare a backup. On write-intensive workloads, this behavior caused the delay of the redo follow thread.
```

Author: fixed

[PXB-2980](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2980): Adds the `--estimate-memory` parameter to enable/disable the Smart memory estimation feature during the backup phase.

## Bug fixes

[PXB-2264](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2264): When a table with the next auto incremental value `2` was exported using Percona XtraBackup, the table got the next auto incremental value `1` instead of `2`.

[PXB-2954](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2954): During prepare phase Percona XtraBackup uses Serialized Dictionary information (SDI) to create the tabels's metadata. If there was an orphan table (leftover from a upgrade) without SDI information, Percona XtraBackup failed to prepare a backup.

> [PXB-2970](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2970): Removed unnecessary check for redo log files at the end of backup in case the archive was enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PXB-2970](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2970): Removed unnecessary check for redo log files at the end of backup in case the redo archive was enabled.
```

Author: fixed

[PXB-2972](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2972): An error after the redo apply phase caused an assertion failure instead of a graceful exit.

[PXB-2977](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2977): Fixed the security vulnerability [CVE-2022-25834](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-25834).

> [PXB-2998](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2998): Percona XtraBackup exited during prepare phase at `dict_load_tables_from_space_id()`.

Reviewer 2: Due to a server bug (https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=1101) in the upgrade, it leaves the dictionary tables in a temporary schema instead of 'mysql' schema. Percona Xtrabackup can now successfully prepare these backup directories.

Author: Updated

[PXB-2999](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2999): Removed the warning message that MLOG_INDEX_LOAD redo log record was found.

> [PXB-3022](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-3022): Added more memory to use on prepare phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PXB-3022](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-3022): Reduce the required memory for --prepare phase.
```

Author: Updated

# Percona XtraBackup 8.0.32-26 (2023-0-)

<style>
    table {
        width=50%’;
        font-family: Poppins;
    }
    table td {
        border: 0px;
        padding: 8px;
    }
</style>

| Release date | {{ release_date }} |
|---|---|
| Install instructions | [Install Percona XtraBackup](..//..//installation.md) |

[Percona XtraBackup for MySQL Databases](https://www.percona.com/software/mysql-database/percona-xtrabackup) enables MySQL backups without blocking user queries. Percona XtraBackup is ideal for companies with large data sets and mission-critical applications that cannot tolerate long periods of downtime. Offered free as an open source solution, Percona XtraBackup drives down backup costs while providing unique features for MySQL backups.

## Release highlights

This release includes improvements and bug fixes. Percona has implemented a two-stage release process for each version. The first release primarily ensures compatibility with the latest MySQL version, to help those customers who need an updated version of Percona XtraBackup as soon as possible. The second release contains additional bug fixes and any improvements or new features. 

> This release fixes the security vulnerability [CVE-2022-25834](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-25834) issue.

Reviewer 3: Remove the word issue.

Author: fixed

This version adds the `--estimate-memory` parameter to enable/disable the [Smart memory estimation](..//..//advanced/smart_memory_estimation.md) feature during the backup phase.

## Improvements

[PXB-2882](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2882): Removes bitmap code and variables.

> [PXB-2978](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2978): Adds a check to skip the Storage Class test if running against MinIO server. 

Reviewer: remove this. no real benefit for the user.

Author: Updated

> [PXB-2979](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2979): The Smart memory estimation feature parses metadata from the redo log to estimate the required memory to prepare a backup. The structure that holds pages to use `unordered_set` is adjusted to avoid possible slowness on heavy write workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PXB-2979](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2979): The Smart memory estimation feature parses metadata from the redo log to estimate the required memory to prepare a backup. On write intensive workloads it was causing redo follow thread to fall behind.
```

Author: rewritten

[PXB-2980](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2980): Adds the `--estimate-memory` parameter to enable/disable the Smart memory estimation feature during the backup phase.

## Bug fixes

[PXB-2264](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2264): When a table with the next auto incremental value `2` was exported using Percona XtraBackup, the table got the next auto incremental value `1` instead of `2`.

> [PXB-2954](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2954): During prepare phase Percona XtraBackup uses SDI to create the METADATA of a table. If there was an orphan table (leftover from a upgrade) without SDI information, Percona XtraBackup failed to prepare a backup.

Reviewer 3: uses Serialized Dictionary Information (SDI) to create the table's metadata.

> [PXB-2970](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2970): Percona XtraBackup checked redo file at the end of the backup in case using the redo archive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PXB-2970](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2970): Removed unnecessary check for redo log files at the end of backup in case of archive been turned on.
```

Author: Rewritten

> [PXB-2972](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2972): Percona XtraBackup crashed instead of exiting gracefully when there was an error after applying a redo and checking the state of redo files.

Reviewer 3: An error after applying a redo and checking the state of the redo files caused an unexpected exit.

> [PXB-2977](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2977): The paths invoked by decompression tools were not validated before execution. That could cause a security risk.

Reviewer 3: Remove "That could cause a security risk"

[PXB-2998](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2998): Percona XtraBackup exited during prepare phase at `dict_load_tables_from_space_id()`.

[PXB-2999](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-2999): Removed the warning message that MLOG_INDEX_LOAD redo log record was found.

> [PXB-3013](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PXB-3013): The smart memory test failed with 0 redo log because no redo log was applied.

Reviewer: remove

Author: done
